---
layout: post
title: javaws ,Java Web Start
date: "2013-07-20 18:03"
tags: [java,jdk-tools]
permalink: /2013/07/20/javaws/
gh-repo: sarkershantonu/sarkershantonu.github.io
excerpt: "Blog on Java"
gh-badge: [star,follow]
comments: true
---
In this article we are going to see javaws commands.

# What is javaws?
javaws launches Java applications/applets hosted on a network. Javaws is **Java Web Start launcher** launches Java Web Start, a reference implementation of **JNLP**(Java Network Launching Protocol). 

### Syntax
Javaws has three type for command format. 

    javaws [options] 
    javaws [options] [URL] 
    javaws [options] [jnlp-file]

- Without any options javaws will launch the JNLP Application Manager, from which users can launch applications/applet or configure Java Web Start.
- With a URL specified for a JNLP , javaws will launch the Java application/applet specified in the JNLP file.

## javaws Options : 

- online : Runs in online mode (default behavior).
- offline : Runs Java Web Start in offline mode.
- viewer : Runs the Java Application Cache Viewer.
- uninstall : The entire cache is removed
- uninstall (URL) : Removes a specific application/applet from the user's cache(URL in JNLP file). -updateVersions : Updates the Java Web Start configuration file.
- system : Uses the system cache.
 -wait : The javaws process will not exit until the application exits. 


#### import options(jnlp file): 

    import [Import options] [jnlp file]

- Imports the application specified by URL into the user's cache but does not run it. The Import options are
    - silent : imports in silent mode( no UI pop up).
    - codebase (url) : Replaces the code base with (url) in the jnlp file specified when importing the  resources
    - system : Uses the system cache instead of the user cache.
    - shortcut : Creates shortcuts during silent import.
    - association : Creates the associations during silent import.

- open (arguments) : If specified, replaces the arguments in the jnlp file with -open (arguments).
- print (arguments) :  If specified, replaces the arguments in the jnlp file with -print (arguments).
- userConfig (property name) : Clears the specified deployment property.
- userConfig (property name) (property value) : Sets the specified deployment property to the specified value.
- J(option) : Passes option to the java launcher by javaws
- Xclearcache: Clears the user's cache.
- Xnosplash : Disables the display of the initial splash screen.

Thanks :) 