---
layout: post
title: jar,The Java Archiving Tool
date: "2013-07-18 04:55"
tags: [java,jdk-tools]
permalink: /2013/07/18/jar/
gh-repo: sarkershantonu/sarkershantonu.github.io
excerpt: "Blog on Java JAR"
gh-badge: [star,follow]
comments: true
---
In this article we are going to elaborate the jar commands (comes with jdk package)

## What is Jar & Jar tool?
Jar means Java archive. After compiling one or more java classes, jar represent all classes tater in a single deplorable file. JAR is a standard ZIP or Archive format of java byte codes. 

To make this, jdk has jar command line tool. The jar tool combines multiple files into a single JAR archive file. 

**jar** is a general-purpose archiving and compression tool, based on ZIP and the ZLIB compression format.

#### Syntax :
 
        jar [option] [jar/class name/file name] [parameters..]

### Jar Options : 
- c : Creates new archive
- t : List table of contents for a archive
- x : Extracts named (or all) files from a archive
- u : Updates existing archive
- v : Generates verbose output on standard output
- f :  Specifies archive file name
- m : Include manifest information from specified manifest file
- e : Specify application entry point for stand-alone application bundled into an executable jar file
- 0 : Stores only; (no compression)
- M : Does not create a manifest file for the entries
- i : Generates index information for the specified jar files
- C : Changes to the specified directory and include the input file arguments. Its operation is similar to the -C option of the UNIX tar utility
- J(option) : Its supports options from java command. See my this post to get to know about those options.  Basically , it pass option into the Java runtime environment. 

**Note** : A manifest file entry named **META-INF/MANIFEST.MF** is automatically generated by the jar tool and is always the first entry in the jar file. [Here is Jar specification](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/jar/jar.html#JAR%20Manifest). 

## Examples : 

#### Add a index to jar file : 

    jar i [myJarFile] -J[option] 

#### Create a jar file : 
- Creates new jars(verbose output, store only and not creating manifest) specific file name, with change directory and a java option (including some files)
 
        jar c[v0M]f [myJarFile] [-C dir] [myInputfiles] -J[option]

- Creates new jars(verbose output, store only),creating manifest, specific jar name, with change directory and a java option (including some files) and specify entry point(main class).
 
        jar c[v0]mf [manifest] [myJarFile] [-C dir] [myInputfiles] -J[option] [-e entrypoint]

- Creates new jars(verbose output, store only and not creating manifest) with change directory and a java option(including some files)

        jar c[v0M] [-C dir] [myInputfiles] -J[option]

- Creates new jars(verbose output, store only),creating manifest with change directory and a java option (including some files)

        jar c[v0]m [manifest] [-C dir] [myInputfiles] -J[option]

#### Extract jar file : 

        jar x[v]f [myJarFile] [[myInputfiles]] -J[option]
        jar x[v] [[myInputfiles]] -J[option]

#### Update jar file : 

        jar u[v0M]f [myJarFile] [-C dir] [myInputfiles] -J[option]
        jar u[v0]mf manifest [myJarFile] [-C dir] [myInputfiles] -J[option] [-e entrypoint]
        jar u[v0M] [-C dir] [myInputfiles] -J[option]
        jar u[v0]m manifest [-C dir] [myInputfiles] -J[option]

#### List table of contents of jar file : 

        jar t[v]f [myJarFile] [[myInputfiles]] -J[option]
        jar t[v] [[myInputfiles]] -J[option]

**Notes** : Terms that i have used here 
- myJarFile : The file which will be created
- myInputfiles : Files added to jar. (separated by space whilewriting)
- manifest : Pre-existing manifest file whose name : value pairs are to be included in MANIFEST.MF in the jar
- entrypoint : The name of the class that set as the application entry point 


Thanks...:)