---
layout: post
title: jhat, Java CLI script shell
date: "2013-07-23 10:32"
tags: [java,jdk-tools]
permalink: /2013/07/23/jhat/
gh-repo: sarkershantonu/sarkershantonu.github.io
excerpt: "Blog on Java"
gh-badge: [star,follow]
comments: true
---
In this article we are going to see the **jhat** commands.

# What is jhat?
**jhat** command purses the java heap dump file and launches a web server to brows heap dumps. 

It supports, pre defined queries, OQL(object query language). 

# How to create heap dumps?
We need to use any of following options to create heap dumps.  
- jmap
- jconsole
- hprof
- Running JVM with **-XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError**
- JvisualVM (GUI)
- JMC

I will provide separate blog on heap dumps.

### Syntax

    jhat [options] [heap-dump-file]

## jhat Options : 
- stack (false/true) : Turn off tracking object allocation call stack. Default is true
- refs (false/true) :  Turn off tracking of references to objects. Default is true.
- port (port-number) : Set the port-number for the jhat's HTTP server. Default is 7000.
- exclude (exclude-file) : Specify a file that lists data members that should be excluded from the "reachable objects" query. 
- baseline (baseline-dump-file) : Specify a baseline heap dump. It is useful while comparing two heap dumps
- debug (int) : Sets debug level for this tool. 0=no debug . Higher values for more verbose modes.  
- J(option) : Passes option to the Java virtual machine on which jhat is running.

# From CLI

    Usage:  jhat [-stack <bool>] [-refs <bool>] [-port <port>] [-baseline <file>] [-debug <int>] [-version] [-h|-help] <file>
    
            -J<flag>          Pass <flag> directly to the runtime system. For
                              example, -J-mx512m to use a maximum heap size of 512MB
            -stack false:     Turn off tracking object allocation call stack.
            -refs false:      Turn off tracking of references to objects
            -port <port>:     Set the port for the HTTP server.  Defaults to 7000
            -exclude <file>:  Specify a file that lists data members that should
                              be excluded from the reachableFrom query.
            -baseline <file>: Specify a baseline object dump.  Objects in
                              both heap dumps with the same ID and same class will
                              be marked as not being "new".
            -debug <int>:     Set debug level.
                                0:  No debug output
                                1:  Debug hprof file parsing
                                2:  Debug hprof file parsing, no server
            -version          Report version number
            -h|-help          Print this help and exit
            <file>            The file to read

Mainly this tool is used for comparing and debugging a hep dump(specially when server is having problems or test fail while processing).

Thanks..:)