---
layout: post
title: jstack, Java Stack Trace
date: "2013-07-24 11:09"
tags: [java,jdk-tools]
permalink: /2013/07/24/jstack/
gh-repo: sarkershantonu/sarkershantonu.github.io
excerpt: "Blog on Java"
gh-badge: [star,follow]
comments: true
---
In this article we are going to see the **jstack** commands.

# What is jstack?
**jstack** prints Java stack traces of Java threads for a Java process /core file /a remote debug server.

### Syntax

    jstack [ option ] pId
    jstack [ option ] exe core
    jstack [ option ] [server-id@]remote-hostname-or-IP 

In here : 
- pId = Java process id (use jps to get the info) 
- exe = Java executable from which the core dump was produced.
- core = core file for which the stack trace is to be printed.
- remote-hostname-or-IP = Debug server's (see jsadebugd) hostname or IP address.
- server-id= (optional) unique server id

# jstack Options : 
- F : Force a stack dump when 'jstack (-l) pid' is not responsive.
- l : Long listing. (Prints more info about locks)
- m : Prints mixed mode (both Java and C/C++ frames) stack trace.

# From CLI

        Usage:
            jstack [-l] <pid>
                (to connect to running process)
            jstack -F [-m] [-l] <pid>
                (to connect to a hung process)
            jstack [-m] [-l] <executable> <core>
                (to connect to a core file)
            jstack [-m] [-l] [server_id@]<remote server IP or hostname>
                (to connect to a remote debug server)
        
        Options:
            -F  to force a thread dump. Use when jstack <pid> does not respond (process is hung)
            -m  to print both java and native frames (mixed mode)
            -l  long listing. Prints additional information about locks
            -h or -help to print this help message

#### Notes :
- If the given process is running on a 64-bit VM, we need to specify the -J-d64 option.
- In windows, the system path variable should contain jvm.dll (for my pc, it is in C:\Program Files\Java\jre6\bin\server).

Thanks..:)