---
layout: post
title: jmap, Java Memory Map Printer
date: "2013-07-25 11:48"
tags: [java,jdk-tools]
permalink: /2013/07/25/jmap/
gh-repo: sarkershantonu/sarkershantonu.github.io
excerpt: "Blog on Java"
gh-badge: [star,follow]
comments: true
---
In this article we are going to see the **jmap** commands.

# What is jmap?
**jmap** prints shared object memory maps/heap memory details of a given process/core file/a remote debug server. Jmap stands for java memory map. 

### Syntax

    jmap [option] pId
    jmap [option] exe core
    jmap [option] [server-id@]remote-hostname-or-IP

In here : 
- pId = Java process id (use jps to get the info)
- exe = Java executable from which the core dump was produced.
- core = Core file for which the stack trace is to be printed.
- remote-hostname-or-IP = Debug server's (see jsadebugd) hostname or IP address.
- server-id= (optional) unique server id

# jmap Options : 
With no option is used jmap prints shared object mappings. This is similar to the Solaris pmap utility.

- dump:\[live\], format=b,file=filename : Dumps the Java heap in hprof binary format to filename. 
    - live : objects in the heap are dumped(optional).
    - format=b : Binary default
    - file=filename : dump heap to filename

- finalizerinfo : Prints information on objects awaiting finalization.
- heap : Prints a heap summary(GC algorithm ,heap configuration ,generation wise heap)
- histo\[:live\] : Prints a **histogram** of the heap.
- permstat :Prints class loader wise statistics of permanent generation of Java heap( the number and size of interned Strings are also printed)
- F : Force(Use with jmap -dump or jmap -histo option when pid is not responding)
- J(option): Passes option to the Java virtual machine on which jmap is running.

# From CLI

    Usage:
        jmap [option] <pid>
            (to connect to running process)
        jmap [option] <executable <core>
            (to connect to a core file)
        jmap [option] [server_id@]<remote server IP or hostname>
            (to connect to remote debug server)
    
    where <option> is one of:
        <none>               to print same info as Solaris pmap
        -heap                to print java heap summary
        -histo[:live]        to print histogram of java object heap; if the "live"
                             suboption is specified, only count live objects
        -clstats             to print class loader statistics
        -finalizerinfo       to print information on objects awaiting finalization
        -dump:<dump-options> to dump java heap in hprof binary format
                             dump-options:
                               live         dump only live objects; if not specified,
                                            all objects in the heap are dumped.
                               format=b     binary format
                               file=<file>  dump heap to <file>
                             Example: jmap -dump:live,format=b,file=heap.bin <pid>
        -F                   force. Use with -dump:<dump-options> <pid> or -histo
                             to force a heap dump or histogram when <pid> does not
                             respond. The "live" suboption is not supported
                             in this mode.
        -h | -help           to print this help message
        -J<flag>             to pass <flag> directly to the runtime system

#### Notes :
- If the given process is running on a 64-bit VM, we need to specify the **-J-d64** option. 
- In windows, the system path variable should contain jvm.dll(for my PC, it is in C:\Program Files\Java\jre6\bin\server).

Thanks..:)