---
layout: post
title: idlj, idl-to-Java Compiler
date: "2013-08-02 02:09"
tags: [java,reflection]
permalink: /2013/08/02/idlj/
gh-repo: sarkershantonu/sarkershantonu.github.io
excerpt: "Blog on java"
gh-badge: [star,follow]
comments: true
---
In this article we are going to see how to work **idlj**commands.

### What is idl?
IDL means [interface definition Language](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interface_description_language).

# What is idlj?
**idlj** builds IDL file to JAVA following (specifications)(https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/idl/mapping/jidlMapping.html). 

Previously it was named as idltojava. idlj is a compiler that reads an OMG(Object Management Group) IDL file and translates / maps to a Java interface. 

It creates stub, skeleton, helper, holder and other necessary files. The specified pdf formatted OMG  file defines the interface file(.java).

# Syntax

    idlj [options] [idl-file]
    
# jdlj Options : 
- d (symbol) : Is same as #define symbol in a idl file. 
- emitAll : Emit all types along with files found in #include 
- f(side) : Defines bindings to emit. A side can be client, server, serverTIE, all, or allTIE. fserverTIE and -fallTIE cause delegate to be emitted.(-fclient is not specified)
- i (include-path) : To add another directory for scanning with default one. 
- keep : To set not to overwrite an existed file.
- noWarn : Set No warning messages.
- oldImplBase : Generates skeletons compatible with pre-1.4 JDK ORBs.(backward-compatibility to  ImplBase Inheritance Model classes)
- pkgPrefix (type) (prefix) : Generates Java package name with prefix for all files generated for that type(type is the simple name of either a top-level module, or an IDL type defined outside of any module)
- pkgTranslate (type) (package) : Replaces type module in the identifier with package for all generated Java package files
- td (dir) : To set dir as output directory 
- verbose : Verbose mode
- **skeletonName (xxx%yyy)** : Naming pattern for skeleton. The defaults are: %POA for the POA base class (-fserver /-fall), _%ImplBase for the oldImplBase class (-oldImplBase and -fserver /-fall)
- **tieName (xxx%yyy)** : Naming pattern for tie .The defaults are: %POATie for the POA tie base class (-fserverTie /-fallTie), %_Tie for the oldImplBase tie class (-oldImplBase and -fserverTie /-fallTie)

**Notes**:
- **pkgPrefix** changes are made first. If more than one translation matches an identifier, the longest match is chosen.
- Escaped identifiers in the global scope may not have the same spelling as IDL primitive types, Object, or ValueBase as the symbol table is pre-loaded with these identifiers
- The fixed IDL type is not supported.
- No import for global identifiers. When we invoke on an unexported local impl,we will get exception, (due to a NullPointerException in the ServerDelegate DSI code)

Uses: When we are using old OMG IDL code to rewriting new java code. Spatially used while converting old codes/definitions. Some time it is used to followup old interface. 

# From CLI 

    Compiler Usage:
    
        java com.sun.tools.corba.se.idl.toJavaPortable.Compile [options] <idl file>
    
    where <idl file> is the name of a file containing IDL definitions, and
    [options] is any combination of the options listed below.  The options
    are optional and may appear in any order; <idl file> is required and
    must appear last.
    
    Options:
    -d <symbol>               This is equivalent to the following line in an
                              IDL file:  #define <symbol>
    -emitAll                  Emit all types, including those found in #included files.
    -f<side>                  Define what bindings to emit.  <side> is one of client,
                              server, all, serverTIE, allTIE.  serverTIE and allTIE
                              cause delegate model skeletons to be emitted.  If this
                              flag is not used, -fclient is assumed.
    -i <include path>         By default, the current directory is scanned for
                              included files.  This option adds another directory.
    -keep                     If a file to be generated already exists, do not
                              overwrite it.  By default it is overwritten.
    -noWarn                   Suppress warnings.
    -oldImplBase              Generate skeletons compatible with old (pre-1.4) JDK ORBs.
    -pkgPrefix <t> <prefix>   When the type or module name <t> is encountered at
                              file scope, begin the Java package name for all files
                              generated for <t> with <prefix>.
    -pkgTranslate <t> <pkg>   When the type or module name <t> in encountered, replace
                              it with <pkg> in the generated java package.  Note that
                              pkgPrefix changes are made first.  <t> must match the
                              full package name exactly.  Also, <t> must not be
                              org, org.omg, or any subpackage of org.omg.
    -skeletonName <xxx%yyy>   Name the skeleton according to the pattern.
                              The defaults are:
                              %POA for the POA base class (-fserver or -fall)
                              _%ImplBase for the oldImplBase base class
                              (-oldImplBase and (-fserver or -fall)).
    -td <dir>                 use <dir> for the output directory instead of
                              the current directory.
    -tieName <xxx%yyy>        Name the tie according to the pattern.  The defaults are:
                              %POATie for the POA tie (-fserverTie or -fallTie)
                              %_Tie for the oldImplBase tie
                              (-oldImplBase and (-fserverTie or -fallTie)).
    -v, -verbose              Verbose mode.
    -version                  Display the version number and quit.

Thanks...:)    